---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "namep Provider"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  A provider for creating names for terraform resources.
---

# namep Provider

A provider for creating names for terraform resources via user configured formats.  The provider enforces name format,
length and various other checks so non-compliant configurations fail before any resources are created with the name describing
what the problem is instead of failing with less obvious messages.

## Example Usage

```terraform
provider "namep" {
  slice_string     = "MYAPP DEV"
  default_location = "westeurope"
  extra_tokens = {
    branch = var.branch_name
  }
  resource_formats = {
    azurerm_resource_group = "#{TOKEN_1}-#{TOKEN_2}-#{SHORT_LOC}#{-BRANCH}-#{NAME}"
  }
}

# NOTE: if branch name is an empty string neither it nor the dash will show up in the name
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `default_location` (String) Location to use if none are specified in the data_source.
- `default_nodash_name_format` (String) Default format to use for resources which can not have dashes. Defaults to `#{SLUG}#{SHORT_LOC}#{NAME}`.
- `default_resource_name_format` (String) Default format to use for resources which can have dashes. Defaults to `#{SLUG}-#{SHORT_LOC}-#{NAME}`.
- `extra_tokens` (Map of String) Extra variables for use in format (see Supported Variables).  These can be overriden at the data source level.
- `resource_formats` (Map of String) Which format to use for specific resource types (see Example Usage).

The purpose of this attribute is to allow overrides to the format only for specific resources.
- `slice_string` (String) A String containing strings seperated by space (see Example Usage) which can be used in the format via the `TOKEN_*` variables (see Supported Variables).

The point of this attribute is so users who have a terraform string from some other resource (e.g. `subscription_name`) don't have to pre-process it but can simply apply it here and use parts of it in their formats.

## Creating the format string

The formats are made with a string consisting of static text and variables to be substituted when the name is computed.  The
formats can be specified in `default_nodash_name_format`, `default_resource_name_format`, and `resource_formats`.  Any normal
text found in the string will be left as-is.  Any text start surrounded by `#{}` will be treated as a variable and substituted
if possible.  Variables also support **optional dashes**. A variable like `#{-VAR}` will put a dash in front of the variable
unless the value is empty.  The dash can also be after the variable name to optionally put it behind the variable instead.
Using the dash on both sides is not supported.

**Note:  All variable values will be lowercased.**

## Built Variables

**User defined** - Users can define variables with the `extra_tokens` attribute.  The names of these variables will be upper cased and the
                   values lower cased.  Otherwise they are not processed.

`TOKEN_{n}` - `{n}` is the number of the `slice_string` field to substitue into the string.  The first field is **1**, not **0**.

`LOC` - This will be replaced with the value in the `location` attribute.  If this attribute is not present, `default_location` from
        the provider will be used instead.

`SHORT_LOC` - A shortened location name (see [here](https://github.com/jason-johnson/terraform-provider-namep/blob/main/tools/data/locationDefinitions.json) for supported locations and their short names).

`ALT_SHORT_LOC` - Alternative short name for location.  This is `short_name_2` in the json mapping file.

`NAME` - The value of the `name` attribute.

`SLUG` - A slug representing the resource the format is being created for.  This variable can only be used if the resource type is specified.
         See [here](https://github.com/jason-johnson/terraform-provider-namep/blob/main/tools/data/resourceDefinition.json) and
         [here](https://github.com/jason-johnson/terraform-provider-namep/blob/main/tools/data/resourceDefinition_out_of_docs.json) for the Azure slug mapping.

**NOTE**: The Azure mappings are actually loaded from the [azurecaf](https://github.com/aztfmod/terraform-provider-azurecaf) project.

